# 2020/05/20


## Agenda



*   **Announcements**
    *   Our weekly project meeting will now be Tuesdays at 10:30 Boston / 17:30 Tel Aviv.
*   **Reminder**
    *   We’ll have a meeting at 11:30 AM US Eastern time to bring the ACM team up to speed on Mass Open Cloud so we can all agree on scope of ACM involvement in it.
*   **Scope Clarification &lt;Review and expand>**
    *   Our goal is to create a repeatable deployment including OpenShift + virtualization and Advanced Cluster Management on Bare Metal using the Open Infrastructure Labs as our upstream project and the Mass Open Cloud (MOC) as the environment in which we will develop our downstream project. We have decided to name the output of this downstream project Mass Open Cloud Next Gen.
    *   All the work developed as part of MOC Next Gen should land in the Open Infra Labs upstream project, this includes, but is not limited to deployment scripts, reference architecture, requirements, etc.
    *   MOC Next Gen consists of the following pillars/components (to be expanded with the expectations from each pillar/component):
        *   OpenShift Container Platform (OCP)
        *   OpenShift Virtualization
        *   Advanced Cluster Management
        *   Consulting
        *   Infrastructure 
        *   Operations
*   Review answers to architecture questions posed in our last meeting.
    *   Usage of Cisco nodes?
        *   We’ve decided to use DELL servers since the Cisco servers have old and unsupported storage controller cards.
    *   External monitoring?
        *   We’ve decided to start with self-contained monitoring.
        *   Monitoring of BM services - Shon found out that there is BM monitoring available, however not sure if it will be enough to monitor components at a lower level (like disks, etc).
    *   CNV monitoring - how can we see the VMs themselves instead of pods or containers?
        *   Some of our concerns were addressed in a demo given during [What's New] OpenShift virtualization [May-2020] ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11ui1XXt9KqRAGfVTOW6_Ol7qIgQc3847OHPJy_rRYK4/edit?usp=sharing),[ Recording](https://videos.learning.redhat.com/media/%5BWhat%27s+New%5D+OpenShift+virtualization+%5BMay-2020%5D/1_s7xwaozf),[ Q&A](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iuFCqG6zDniTK7tFKmrNd9h5fFg_fGoOvtBpaSyTl84/edit?usp=sharing))
    *   Data retention period for monitoring data (logs & statistics)
        *   We have decided to keep 3 days worth of monitoring data in the monitoring nodes. And we’ll export data beyond that to long term storage at the NorthEast Storage Exchange (NESE). The NESE is a 26 PB data lake adjacent to the MOC.
            *   Once in place we’ll evaluate against use cases and adjust if needed.
    *   Storage for monitoring: \
	Logs:
            *   We would like to keep our logs for more than 15 days (see ^^)
                *   This would require increased storage capacity. 	
                    *   For all metrics 15 GB per node?
        *   Metrics
            *   We would like for extended periods of time (as long as the clusters are up) since we’ll use these metrics to research our clusters.
    *   Thanos will be part of the ACM capabilities (we’ll find out more in our meeting with the ACM team today).
*   Take a look into what we will need (ideally) to deploy the services we need in the MOC.
    *   [OpenShift virtualization on the MOC design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EcVF2ptqK5NL44Vtugh9W2xdSRPgvdn7JptvxXnU7UI/edit#heading=h.wal5guc43yur)
*   Naved is taking care of the networking prerequisites in preparation for getting an OCP cluster up and running. Stretch goal is ot have CNV virtualization running on it.


# ---



*   **Other Questions**
    *   What are our plans for OCS?
        *   This is something we are going to look into later on.
*   **Open Questions**
    *   After we do the initial install, will we be able to add nodes specifically to the OCS cluster?
*   **Action Items**
    *   **[ ] TBD:** Create a separate Technical Document similar to[ OpenShift virtualization on the MOC design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EcVF2ptqK5NL44Vtugh9W2xdSRPgvdn7JptvxXnU7UI/edit#heading=h.wal5guc43yur) for ACM.
    *   **[ ] Michael: **Let’s tap Marcel Hild (&lt;<span style="text-decoration:underline;">mhild@redhat.com</span>>) to help us determine data requirements for monitoring.
        *   We need to come up with a more accurate amount of storage that will be needed for monitoring taking into consideration the types of things that we want to monitor, the number of things that we want monitor and the things we want to monitor within them.
        *   Let’s move this discussion here:[ https://gitlab.com/open-infrastructure-labs/nerc-architecture/-/issues/6](https://gitlab.com/open-infrastructure-labs/nerc-architecture/-/issues/6) - Marcel Hild,etc. Are actively engaged in discussions at gitlab